This week we discovered new ways to translate our data and findings into digestable content for mass consumption. We touched on mapping, academic posters, sounification and static websites. With all of these in mind I really realized there are ample ways to translate data. Some things I found intriguing about this week was the thought that the way we present our findings right down to the typography of our finsings can change the effectivness or validity of your findings. I also realized that there are a lot of methods of presenting data that we are not taught. We have been told since kindergarten maybe 3 or 4 ways that data can be presented, and especially now in university we have such strict rules for presenting findings right down to the size of our margins and type. I feel like this week it was a nice change to be able to more or less play with different presentation types. I definitely enjoyed the portion of the lesson learning about colour theory and typography and I also really enjoyed the mapping tools as this is something I have never really explored. 

In my own work I did this week I connected most with the map of Ottawa. I am not origionally from Ottawa so it was a very interesting experience to see how things have evolved and I was actually surprised at how many of the streets and even their conigurations are the same as they were almost 150 years ago. As with the other research I did this week I did not really come to any conclusions as I had no real connection to the material I was analyzing. I would be interested to apply some of these techniques to more of my own personal work from the past. When I think about charts and graphs I have made in the past I definitely think by applyng som eog the colour theory tips they would be more effective. I also think that some of my past work in this course even could have definitely beifited from the tools I learned this week. 

After showing my fiancè my work from this week she and I critically analyzed my work. First thing we agreed on was the graph I edited. I took the oppourtunity to more learn the interface rather than use it to actually create a more comprehensive graph and again we both agreed that I should have spent more time editing it to make it more useful. We also discussed my academic poster. In that same vein she said I should have edited the graphs I put into the poster to reflect the purpose of the graphs. She and I also agree that I could have made my conclusions based on the graph more clear. She said she enjoyed the podcast as well and was happy to see that I was stepping out of my confort zone. We both agreed that a better microphone would be helpful and we also agreed that the sonification was a great start but a little tin can-ish and it would be a good idea to put it into a program like garage band or Audacity to make it sound better. 

Overall this weeks work really made me think about my wor as a historian. It made me realize I don't need to just present findings in a 1in margin, Times New Roman, 12 point font essay double spaced but I can have a more creative take on expressing my findings and that it may actually make my findings more accessible to those who don't typically read academic essays. I feel it also has impacted my craft because often times I feel stuck in a box with my work especially in school, not being able to be a more creative historian but these tools have given me the oppourtunity to explore that side of the craft which is often forgotten. I do think I will be carrying these tools with me as I move into the work force hopefully in January and they are all skills I feel a vast majority of modern historians will not have. I am very excited to be able to use what I have learned going forward with my craft.
